#summary This is the user guide for XAddonManager
#labels Featured

= XAddonManager User Guide =

XAddonManager (XAM) has been designed to be easy to use, but this page gives a quick run-through of its features and how to use them.


== Download and Install ==

The application is distributed as a zip archive.  Click the download link for your platform (Mac / Linux / Windows) on the home page of this site to start the download.  After you've downloaded it, you will need to uncompress the zip and there are a number of different utilities that will do this.

=== Mac ===

An unzipping utility is included in all recent versions of the Mac Operating System, so in most cases you can just double-click the downloaded zip archive.  If you are using an older version of the Operating System then you can use [http://www.stuffit.com/mac/expander/index.html Stuffit Expander].

=== Windows ===

You will need a utility such as [http://www.winzip.com/ WinZip].  Right-click the downloaded file and select *!WinZip -> Extract to here*.

=== Linux ===

There will typically be an unzipping utility included with your distro.


== First Run ==

The first time you run XAM, the software will ask you to locate your X-Plane folder.  In Windows, this is likely to be `C:\Program Files\X-Plane` or `C:\Program Files\X-System` or similar. On the Mac, it is likely to be `X-Plane` or `X-System` in your `Applications` folder. Note that the X-Plane folder may have the version appended (e.g. `X-Plane 8.50`).  If you choose a folder that XAM doesn't think is an X-Plane folder, you will get a warning and be asked to choose another folder. 

XAM will remember the folder you choose for the next time you run the application.

Once you have selected a valid X-Plane folder, XAM will load up the main window.


== Main Window ==

At the top of the main window, the currently set X-Plane folder is displayed and alongside this is a button to allow you to choose a different folder.  This is useful if you have several installations of X-Plane on the same computer and you want to switch between them.

Beneath this is the main area of the window, organised into either 3 or 4 tabs depending on what you have installed in your particular version of X-Plane.  The four tabs are titled *Custom Scenery Packages*, *Plugins*, *Aircraft* and *CSLs*.

=== Custom Scenery Packages ===

This is the tab that is always first selected when you launch XAM.  At the top is displayed a list of all your Custom Scenery Packages, and at the bottom these scenery packages are plotted on a world map.  The list also contains a number of additional columns, which show extra information about each Scenery Package.  The information in the columns is as follows:

|| *Column Title* || *Description* ||
|| Name || This is the name of the scenery package and is taken from the folder name of the package on your disk ||
|| L || If a tick appears in this column, the scenery package contains a library of scenery objects.  For further information on X-Plane scenery libraries, here's a good [http://www.marginal.org.uk/x-planescenery/library_tutorial/index.html Tutorial by Jonathan Harris]. ||
|| ES || If a tick appears in this column, the package contains scenery for a part of the Earth.  ||
|| MS || If a tick appears in this column, the package contains scenery for a part of Mars.  ||
|| EA || If a tick appears in this column, the package contains airport layouts for Earth. ||
|| MA || If a tick appears in this column, the package contains airport layouts for Mars. ||
|| Plot || If a tick appears in this column, the package will be plotted on the world map in XAM.  *This doesn't affect X-Plane at all*, but can be useful to hide certain scenery packages that cover large areas of the map in XAM. ||
|| Enable || If a tick appears in this column, the package will load in X-Plane.  *If unchecked, the package will not be loaded in X-Plane*.  When you uncheck the 'Enable' checkbox, XAM will move the scenery package on disk into a folder titled 'Custom Scenery (disabled), located in your X-Plane folder. || 
Enabled scenery packages are plotted in green and disabled packages are plotted in red. When you click a package in the list, it will be highlighted on the map using a colour animation.  You can also click on the map and the nearest package to your click will be selected in the list.

=== Plugins ===

To Be Written...

=== Aircraft ===

To Be Written...

=== CSLs ===

To Be Written...

 